=head1 NAME

xde-menu - adjust the root menu for lightweight window managers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<xde-menu> is a C<C>-language application that assists lightweight
window managers by creating a root menu in accordance with XDG
specifications.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

See L</USAGE> and L</BEHAVIOR> for more detailed information.

=head1 USAGE

=head1 BEHAVIOR

=head1 WINDOW MANAGERS

=head1 HISTORY

I wrote B<xde-menu> for a number of reasons:

=over

=item 1.

Existing lightweight window manager menu generators that read XDG
F<.desktop> files (e.g. L<fbmenugen(1)>, L<menutray(1)>) do not conform
to the XDG menu generation specification and in particular are incapable
of merging menus.

=item 2.

Existing XDG menu generators (such as the SuSE L<xdg_menu(1)> perl
script) do not properly merge default merge directories and do no
observe C<E<lt>LayoutE<gt>> commands.  Also, they are poor at including
icons in the generated menus.  They, of course, do not generate tray
menus either.

=item 3.

Existing XDG menu generators run once and keep cache information, or
have a I<regenerate> command placed in the menu.  They do not monitor
XDG directories for changes and update menu on changes.

=item 4.

The L<lxpanel(1)> and L<pcmanfm(1)> menu generators do not have any of
the above deficiencies; however, they do not create window manager
specific sub-menus.  Also, they are buggy and generally fail to display
a menu at all when they have a problem.

=item 5.

None of the menu-generating facilities that I have found can handle a
NFS-mounted home directory.  I find this annoying: XDG menus are host
specific.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=cut

# vim: sw=4 tw=72 spell spelllang=en_ca nocin
