=head1 NAME

xde-setwm - set some information on root pertaining to window manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<> B<xde-setwm> [I<options>]
 B<xde-setwm> [I<options>] {B<-h>|B<--help>}
 B<xde-setwm> {B<-V>|B<--version>}
 B<xde-setwm> {B<-C>|B<--copying>}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xde-setwm> is a C-language application that can be used to set
pertinent information about the window manager on the root window.
See L</USAGE> below for more information.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<xde-setwm> uses GNU <get_options_long_only()> to parse options, so
long options with a single dash are accepted; however, short options
cannot be concatenated.  B<xde-setwm> accepts the following options:

=head2 COMMAND OPTIONS

B<xde-setwm> accepts the following options:

=over

=item B<-h>, B<--help>, B<-?>, B<--?>

Prints usage information to standard output and exits.  This command
option can be preceded by other options to observe the settings that
result in the help output.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Prints version information to standard output and exits.

=item B<-C>, B<--copying>

Prints copying permission to standard output and exits.

=back

The default behaviour when no command options are specified is to set
the specified values and exit.

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

B<xde-setwm> accepts the following non-command options:

=over

=item B<-N>, B<--name> I<NAME>

Specify the (resource) name of the window manager.  This should normally be all
lower case.

=item B<-K>, B<--class> I<CLASS>

Specify the (resource) class of the window manager.  This should
normally be the same as I<NAME>, with the first letter capitalized.

=item B<-p>, B<--pid> I<PID>

Specify the process identifier, I<PID>, of the window manager.

=item B<-r>, B<--revision> I<VERSION>

Specify the revision (or version) of the window manager software.

=item B<-c>, B<--command> I<PROGRAM> [I<ARG> [I<ARG> ...]]

Specify the command to be used to launch the window manager.  This must
be the last option in the command line: all options that appear after
this one will be considered to be part of the program, I<PROGRAM>, and
its arguments, I<ARG>.

=item B<-D>, B<--debug> [I<LEVEL>]

Increment or set the debug level to I<LEVEL>.  The default debug level
is 0.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose> [I<LEVEL>]

Increment or set output verbosity level to I<LEVEL>.  The default output
verbosity level is 1.  This option may be repeated.

=back

=head1 PROPERTIES

For the window properties that are set on the root window, see
L<xde-identify(1)>.

=head1 USAGE

B<xde-setwm> is intended on being using by session startup scripts to
identify the window manager being run before it is run.  Otherwise,
L<xde-identify(1)> would do.  The X Desktop Environment (XDE) uses this
utility in session startup shell scripts to identify the window manager
to auto-starting applications that may need to know the identity of the
window manager and pertinent theme settings before the window manager
appears.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Following is an example of setting all of the possible values for the
L<blackbox(1)> window manager:

 xde-setwm -N blackbox \
           -K Blackbox \
	   -p $$ \
	   -r 0.70.2 \
	   -c blackbox -rc ~/.config/blackbox/rc

=head1 HISTORY

I wrote this program because L<xprop(1)> refuses to set multiple values
on a property and the C<WM_COMMAND> property is rather important.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<xde-identify(1)>.

=cut

# vim: sw=4 tw=72 spell spelllang=en_ca nocin
