=head1 NAME

xde-backdrop - adjust the backdrop for lightweight window managers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xde-backdrop> is a C<C>-language application that assists lightweight
window managers by changing the backdrop of the desktop in response to
changes in desktop.  It supports window managers that conform to one or
more of NetWM/EWMH, WinWM/WMH, Motif/MWMH.

See L</USAGE> and L</BEHAVIOR> for more detailed information.

=head1 ARGUMENTS

=over

=item I<THEME>

The backdrop theme name or absolute or relative path to the theme file.
Specifies the theme to list or set.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<xde-backdrop> uses GNU L<get_options_long_only(3)> to parse options,
so long options with a single dash are accepted, but short options
cannot be concatentated.  B<xde-backdrop> accepts the following options:

=head2 COMMAND OPTIONS

B<xde-backdrop> accepts the following command options:

=over

=item B<-q>, B<--quit>

Ask a running instance of B<xde-backdrop> to quit. 

=item B<-c>, B<--current>

List the current backdrop theme.

=item B<-l>, B<--list> [I<OPTIONS>] [I<THEME>]

List available backdrop themes or the specified I<THEME>.  General
(non-command) options can precede a specified I<THEME>.

=item B<-s>, B<--set> [I<OPtIONS>] I<THEME>

Set the theme specified by I<THEME>.  General (non-command) options can
preceed the specified I<THEME>.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>, B<-?>, B<--?>

Prints usage information to standard output and exits.  This command
option can be preceded by other options to observe the settings that
result in the help output.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Prints version information to standard output and exits.

=item B<-C>, B<--copying>

Prints copying permission ot standard output and exits.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

=item B<-S>, B<--screen> I<SCREEN>

Only act on the screen number, I<SCREEN>.  The default, C<-1>, is to act
on all screens unless the screen number is specified int he C<DISPLAY>
environment variable, in which case the screen number defaults to the
specified screen.  In general, a window manager with good multiple head
support will add the screen number to the C<DISPLAY> environment
variable for programs that it launches and the screen number does not
need to be specified.

=item B<-r>, B<--replace>

Normally, when another instance of B<xde-backdrop> is already running
for a display, B<xde-backdrop> will pass its arguments to the running
instance and exit.  With this option, B<xde-backdrop> will instead
replace the running instance of B<xde-backdrop>.

=item B<-w>, B<--wmname> I<WMNAME>

Do not detect the window manager, but assume that the window manager
named, I<WMNAME> is to be used.  The B<--screen> option and C<DISPLAY>
environment variable are ignored.

=item B<-f>, B<--rcfile> I<RCFILE>

When the B<--wmname> option has been specified, use the file, I<RCFILE>,
as the configuration file for the window manager.

=item B<-D>, B<--debug> [I<LEVEL>]

Increment or set the debug level to I<LEVEL>.  The default debug level
is 0.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose> [I<LEVEL>]

Increment or set output verbosity level to I<LEVEL>.  The default output
verbosity level is 1.  This option may be repeated.

=head1 USAGE

B<xde-backdrop> was written to work within the X Desktop Environment
(XDE); however, it can be run standalone against any window manager.

=head1 BEHAVIOR

To avoid problems that might arise form running B<xde-backdrop> on
NFS-mounted home directories or when running on multiple displays on the
same host, B<xde-backdrop> remembers its settings based on user, window
manager, host, display and screen.

B<xde-backdrop> operational behaviour is as follows:

=over

=item 1.

When B<xde-backdrop> starts, it checks for the presence of a window
manager.  When no window manager is present, it sets a default backdrop
and waits for a window manager.  When a window manager is present, it
behaves the same way as for a window manager change (see below).

=item 2.

When the first window manager starts, or when B<xde-backdrop> was
started while a window manager was running, or when B<xde-backdrop>
detects a window manager change (or restart), it performs the following
actions:

=over

=item a)

It waits for a preset delay.   The purpose of the delay is that some
lightweight window managers set the background when they start.
B<xde-backdrop> will ignore changes made to the background during this
interval.

=item b)

It then searches for a match to a backdrop theme setting in the
following order:

 Xde*theme.manager.host.display.screen
 Xde*theme.manager.host.display.*
 Xde*theme.*.host.display.screen
 Xde*theme.*.host.display.*
 Xde*theme.manager.host.*.*
 Xde*theme.*.host.*.*
 Xde*theme.*.*.*.*

It accomplishes this search by reading an X resource file in
F<$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/xde/settings>.

=item c)

The matching theme (or default when there is no match) is then applied
and normal operation is entered.

=back

=item 3.

During normal operation, B<xde-backdrop> performs the following actions:

=over 

=item a)

Monitors for requested changes to the backdrop theme, applies those
themes, alters the settings resource file accordingly and then re-enters
normal operation.

=item b)

Monitors for changes to the background made by external backdrop setting
programs.  It does this by monitoring a number of root window properties
used by backdrop setting programs (see L</PROPERTIES>).  It then
customizes the backdrop theme in accordance with the changes and option
settings, alters the setting resource file accordingly, and then
re-enters normal operation.

=back

=back

=head1 THEME SUPPORT

=head1 WINDOW MANAGERS

=head1 HISTORY

Changing backgrounds when desktops or workspaces and work areas was not
possible some decades ago due to the limited memory capabilities of X
Servers at the time.  There is no such limitation today, even on
embedded systems.  The only lightweight window managers with this
capability are L<wmaker(1)>, L<waimea(1)>, L<lxde(1)> (running
L<pcmanfm(1)> in B<-desktop> mode), L<jwm(1)>, L<fvwm(1)> (with the
F<Backer> module): each with their own limitations.

For example: L<fvwm(1)> has the F<Backer> module that can perform
desktop switching in the same fashion as B<xde-backdrop>; however, it
does not store the full set of pixmaps on the X Server and thus
switching between workspaces and work areas is both sluggish and causes
screen flashes.  In particular, changing desktops rapidly with the
scroll wheel is particularly unresponsive.

L<wmaker(1)> cannot handle monitors but is otherwise satisfactory.
L<jwm(1)> cannot scale background images to fill the screen.  L<lxde(1)>
requires running L<pcmanfm(1)> which is buggy and does not handle
monitors well.

Placing different backgrounds on different desktops or workspaces, work
areas and even monitors helps the user of the desktop environment take
notice of desktop changes in an intuitive way without having to take
visual reference of a desktop pager.  It is a useful features that is
missing from most lightweight window managers.

I wrote B<xde-backdrop> for the X Desktop Environment (XDE) to overcome
the limitations of the lightweight window managers that it supports.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

=cut

# vim: sw=4 tw=72 spell spelllang=en_ca nocin
