=head1 NAME

xde-stylemon - monitor style changes for lightweight window managers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 xde-stylemon [OPTIONS]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xde-stylemon> is a C-language application that can be use to manage
the style settings for lightweight window managers.  It can use X
Session Management and will apply the correct style to a window manager
when it starts according to a saved session.  In the absence of session
management, it can still restore the correct style using saved files.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<xde-stylemon> uses GNU C<get_options_long_only()> to parse options, so
long options with a single dash are accepted; however, short options
cannot be concatenated.  B<xde-stylemon> accepts the following options:

=head2 COMMAND OPTIONS

=over

=item [B<-R>, B<--run>]

By default, when no other command option is specified, B<xde-stylemon>
will take ownership of an unowned B<MANAGER> selection and begin
monitoring the style of the window manager and the corresponding XDE
theme.  When the corresponding window manager style changes, it sets the
B<_XDE_STYLE_NAME> property on the root window to correspond to the
style name and records the style for use in session management during
restart.  When an XDE corresponds to the window manager style, it set
the B<_XDE_THEME_NAME> property on the root window to correspond to the
theme name and records the theme for use in session management during
restart.  A client can simply select for property notify events on the
two root window properties to follow a GTK2/GTK3 theme consistent with
the window manager style.

=item B<-r>, B<--replace>

Replace a running instance of B<xde-stylemon> should another instance be
running.  The default behaviour is to quit should another instance be
running.  (This is performed by taking over the B<MANAGER> selection and
continuing.)

=item B<-q>, B<--quit>

Ask a running instance of B<xde-stylemon> to quit, should another
instance be running.  (This is performed by clearing the B<MANAGER>
selection and then exiting.)

=item B<-s>, B<--set> I<THEME>

Ask a running instance to set the theme to I<THEME> and set the
corresponding window manager style if supported.  (This is performed by
requesting a conversion on the B<MANAGER> selection.)

=item B<-h>, B<--help>, B<-?>, B<--?>

Prints usage information to standard output and exits.  This command
option can be preceded by other options to observe the settings that
result from the help output.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Prints program version information to standard output and exits.

=item B<-C>, B<--copying>

Prints program copying permission to standard output and exits.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-S>, B<-sm-session-id> I<SESSIONID>

Specifies the session management identifier, I<SESSIONID>, with which to
restart the session.  This option is typically only provided by a
session manager following the X Session Management protocols.

=item B<-D>, B<--debug> [I<LEVEL>]

Increment or set the debug level to I<LEVEL>.  The default debug level
is 0.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose> [I<LEVEL>]

Increment or set output verbosity level to I<LEVEL>.  The default output
verbosity level is 1.  This option may be repeated.

=back

=head1 USAGE

=head1 BEHAVIOUR

B<xde-stylemon> uses a B<MANAGER> selection in accordances with the
ICCCM to ensure that only a single instance of the program is running on
a screen of the X Display at a given time.  The B<MANAGER> selection is
B<_XDE_STYLE_S>I<%d>, where I<%d> is the screen number.

=head1 THEME SUPPORT

=head1 WINDOW MANAGERS

Following are the window managers supported by B<xde-stylemon>, in
alphabetical order.

=over

=item L<2bwm(1)>

=item L<adwm(1)>

=item L<aewm(1)>

=item L<afterstep(1)>

=item L<awesome(1)>

=item L<blackbox(1)>

=item L<bspwm(1)>

=item L<ctwm(1)>

=item L<cwm(1)>

=item L<dtwm(1)>

=item L<dwm(1)>

=item L<echinus(1)>

=item L<etwm(1)>

=item L<failsafewm(1)>

=item L<fluxbox(1)>

=item L<flwm(1)>

=item L<fvwm(1)>

=item L<herbstluftwm(1)>

=item L<i3(1)>

=item L<icewm(1)>

=item L<jwm(1)>

=item L<matwm2(1)>

=item L<metacity(1)>

=item L<mwm(1)>

=item L<openbox(1)>

=item L<pekwm(1)>

=item L<spectrwm(1)>

=item L<twm(1)>

=item L<uwm(1)>

=item L<vtwm(1)>

=item L<waimea(1)>

=item L<wind(1)>

=item L<wm2(1)>

=item L<wmaker(1)>

=item L<wmii(1)>

=item L<wmx(1)>

=item L<xdwm(1)>

=item L<yeahwm(1)>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock <bidulock@cpan.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<hsetroot(1)>,
L<XDE::Setbg(3pm)>,
L<X11::Protocol(3pm)>.

=cut

# vim: sw=4 tw=72 spell spelllang=en_ca nocin
