=pod

=head1 NAME

xde-watch -- watch for window manager, style and theme changes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 xde-watch [OPTIONS]
 xde-watch [OPTIONS] {-q,--quit}
 xde-watch [OPTIONS] {-r,--restart}
 xde-watch [OPTIONS] {-h,--help}
 xde-watch {-V,--version}
 xde-watch {-C,--copying}

=head1 DESSCRIPTION

B<xde-watch> is a C-language application that can be used to monitor the
presence of light-weight window managers and monitor their style and
theme changes and signal these changes by changing properties on the
X server.  Its primary purpose is to relieve other XDE applications
from the effort of determininig charactersitics associated the window
manager.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 COMMAND OPTIONS

One of the following command options should be specified.  When no
command option is specified, B<xde-watch> will assume that it is to run
normally.

=over

=item B<--quit>, B<-q>

Ask a running instance of B<xde-watch> to quit.

=item B<--restart>, B<-r>

Ask a running instance of B<xde-watch> to restart.

=item B<--help>, B<-h>

Print usage information to standard error containing current defaults
and exit.

=item B<--version>, B<-V>

Print the program version to standard output and exit.

=item B<--copying>, B<-C>

Print the program copying information to standard output and exit.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

B<xde-watch> recognizes the following options: (Because
L<Getopt::Long(3pm)> is used, non-ambiguous abbreviations and single
dash long options are accepted.)

=over

=item B<--foreground>, B<-f>

Run in the foreground, printing debugging information to standard error.

=item B<--remove>, B<-R>

When altering properties on the root windows of the X Display, delete
properties that do not correspond to the running window manager.  This
option can be used to clean up after window managers that do not remove
their root window properties on exit, or window managers that crash.

=item B<--verbose>, B<-v> [I<LEVEL>]

Print verbose information on standard error while running.

=item B<--debug>, B<-D> [I<LEVEL>]

Print debugging information on standard error while running.

=back

=head1 BEHAVIOUR

When B<xde-watch> is executed and an existing instance of B<xde-watch>
is running, it passes its arguments to the running program and exits.

On the initial invocation of B<xde-watch> for a given X Display,
B<xde-watch> will place itself in the background (unless the B<-f>
option is specified) and start monitoring for window managers, style and
theme changes on all screens of the X Display.

When a window manager is present, appears or changes, B<xde-watch>
places properties on the root window to reflect the changes.  See
L</PROPERTIES>.

When given the B<-q> option, B<xde-watch> will request a running
instance (if any) to stop.

When given the B<-r> option, B<xde-watch> will request a running
instance (if any) to restart.  Restart is performed by re-executing the
original binary and is, therefore, suitable for upgrades.

=head1 PROPERTIES

During normal operation, B<xde-watch> monitors for changes in the window
manager, its configuration, styles and themes.  It adds properties to
the root window of the screen on which the window manager is running to
reflect the changes.

=head2 Added Properties

The following properties may be added to the root window of the screens
upon which the window manager is running:

=over

=item C<WM_NAME>

=item C<_NET_WM_NAME>

=item C<_XDE_WM_NAME>

There are all set to the window manager name in lower case, possibly
followed by the window manager version.

=item C<WM_CLIENT_MACHINE>

=item C<_XDE_WM_HOST>

These are set to the fully qualified domain name of the host upon which
the window manager is running.  This should be the same host as the host
on which B<xde-watch> is running.

=item C<WM_CLASS>

=item C<_XDE_WM_CLASS>

These are set to the resource name and class for the window manager, if
known.

=item C<_NET_WM_PID>

=item C<_XDE_WM_PID>

These are set to the process id of the window manager, when known.

=item C<WM_COMMAND>

=item C<_XDE_WM_CMDLINE>

=item C<_XDE_WM_COMMAND>

These are set to the command and arguments passed to the window manager
at startup (i.e. argv array).  The difference between C<_XDE_WM_CMDLINE>
and C<_XDE_WM_COMMAND> is that the former derives from investigation of
the F</proc> filesystem, whereas the later derives directly from a
C<WM_COMMAND> property set on a check window.

=item C<_XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT>

When NetWM/EWMH support is detected, this property is set to the window
specified in C<_NET_SUPPORTING_WM_CHECK>.

=item C<_XDE_WM_WINWM_SUPPORT>

When WinWM/WMH support is detected, this property is set to the window
specified in C<_WIN_SUPPORTING_WM_CHECK>.

=item C<_XDE_WM_MAKER_SUPPORT>

When WindowMaker support is detected, this property is set to the window
specified in C<_WINDOWMAKER_NOTICEBOARD>.

=item C<_XDE_WM_MOTIF_SUPPORT>

When Motif/CDE support is detected, this property is set to the window
specified in C<_MOTIF_WM_INFO>.

=item C<_XDE_WM_ICCCM_SUPPORT>

When ICCCM 2.0 support is detected, this property is set to the window
that owns the C<WM_S%d> selection, where C<%d> is the screen number on
which the window manager is running.

=item C<_XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT>

When ICCCM support is detected (a client has selected for
C<SubstructureRedirect> events on the root window, this property is set
to the root window.

=item C<_XDE_WM_RCFILE>

=item C<_XDE_WM_PRVDIR>

=item C<_XDE_WM_USRDIR>

=item C<_XDE_WM_SYSDIR>

=item C<_XDE_WM_ETCDIR>

When detected, these properties are set to the configuration of the
window manager.  C<_XDE_WM_RCFILE> is the primary configuration file
being used by the window manager, C<_XDE_WM_PRVDIR> is the current
configuration directory, C<_XDE_WM_USRDIR> is the normal default
configuration directory, C<_XDE_WM_SYSDIR> is the system configuration
directory, and C<_XDE_WM_ETCDIR> is the global configuration directory.

=item C<_XDE_WM_STYLEFILE>

=item C<_XDE_WM_STYLE>

=item C<_XDE_WM_STYLENAME>

When detected, these properties are set to reflect the current style
selection of the window manager.  C<_XDE_WM_STYLENAME> is the name of
the style as the window manager prefers to see it, C<_XDE_WM_STYLE> is
the style name, and C<_XDE_WM_STYLEFILE> is the path to the style file
in use.

=item C<_XDE_WM_MENU>

When detected, this property is set to the filesystem path to the root
menu file that is currently being used by the window manager.

=item C<_XDE_WM_ICON>

When detected, this is the icon to use to represent the window manager.
The icon name follows XDG desktop entry specifications.

=item C<_XDE_WM_THEME>

=item C<_XDE_WM_THEMEFILE>

When detected, these properties are set to reflect the XDE theme
currently applied to the window manager.  The theme may or may not be
the same as the window manager style.  When the window manager style
corresponds to an XDE theme, the style and theme will be the same;
however, a window manager can be set to a style that does not correspond
to an XDE theme, in which case they will be different.  C<_XDE_WM_THEME>
is the simple theme name; C<_XDE_WM_THEMEFILE> is the filesystem path
to the XDE theme file.

=back

=head2 Removed Properties

When the B<-R> option is specified, B<xde-watch> will remove the
following properties under the described circumstances:

=over

=item 1.

When the detected window manager is not L<fluxbox(1)>, the
C<_BLACKBOX_PID> property is removed from the root window.

=item 2.

When the detected window manager is not L<blackbox(1)>, the C<_BB_THEME>
property is removed from the root window.

=item 3.

When the detected window manager is not L<openbox(1)>, the
C<_OPENBOX_PID> and C<_OB_THEME> properties are removed from the root
window.

=item 4.

When the detected window manager is not L<i3(1)>, the C<I3_PID>,
C<I3_CONFIG_PATH>, C<I3_SHMLOG_PATH> and C<I3_SOCKET_PATH> properties
are removed from the root window.

=item 5.

When the detected window manager does not support NetWM/EWMH, the
following properties are removed from the root window:

=over

=item C<_NET_ACTIVE_WINDOW>

=item C<_NET_CLIENT_LIST>

=item C<_NET_CLIENT_LIST_STACKING>

=item C<_NET_CURRENT_DESKTOP>

=item C<_NET_DESKTOP>

=item C<_NET_DESKTOP_GEOMETRY>

=item C<_NET_DESKTOP_LAYOUT>

=item C<_NET_DESKTOP_MASK>

=item C<_NET_DESKTOP_NAMES>

=item C<_NET_DESKTOP_PIXMAPS>

=item C<_NET_DESKTOP_VIEWPORT>

=item C<_NET_FULL_PLACEMENT>

=item C<_NET_FULLSCREEN_MONITORS>

=item C<_NET_HANDLED_ICONS>

=item C<_NET_ICON_GEOMETRY>

=item C<_NET_NUMBER_OF_DESKTOPS>

=item C<_NET_PROPERTIES>

=item C<_NET_SHOWING_DESKTOP>

=item C<_NET_SUPPORTED>

=item C<_NET_SUPPORTING_WM_CHECK>

=item C<_NET_VIRTUAL_POS>

=item C<_NET_VIRTUAL_ROOTS>

=item C<_NET_VISIBLE_DESKTOPS>

=item C<_NET_WM_NAME>

=item C<_NET_WM_PID>

=item C<_NET_WORKAREA>

=back

=item 6.

When the detected window manager does not support WinWM/WMH, the
following properties are removed from the root window:

=over

=item C<_WIN_AREA>

=item C<_WIN_AREA_COUNT>

=item C<_WIN_CLIENT_LIST>

=item C<_WIN_DESKTOP_BUTTON_PROXY>

=item C<_WIN_FOCUS>

=item C<_WIN_PROTOCOLS>

=item C<_WIN_SUPPORTING_WM_CHECK>

=item C<_WIN_WORKSPACE>

=item C<_WIN_WORKSPACE_COUNT>

=item C<_WIN_WORKSPACE_NAMES>

=item C<_WIN_WORKSPACES>

=back

=item 7.

When the detected window manager does not support WindowMaker, the
C<_WINDOWMAKER_NOTICEBOARD> property is removed from the root window.

=item 8.

When the detected window manager does not support Motif/CDE, the
C<_DT_WORKSPACE_CURRENT>, C<_DT_WORKSPACE_LIST> and C<_MOTIF_WM_INFO>
properties are removed from the root window.

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Originally, XDE tools used to attempt to determine the configuration,
style and theme of the running window manager on their own.  This led to
a lot of repeated code and was error prone because heuristics where not
centralized.  This is why B<xde-watch> was written and most of the other
tools were converted to watch for XDE root properties instead of
attempting to determine these things for themselves.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock <bidulock@cpan.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<xde-identify(1)>,
L<xde-setwm(1)>.

=cut

# vim: sw=4 tw=72 nocin
