=head1 NAME

xde-identify - query information about running lightweight window managers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 xde-identify [options]
 xde-identify [options] {-h|--help}
 xde-identify {-V|--version}
 xde-identify {-C|--copying}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<xde-itentify> is a C-language application that can be used to query
information about a running or off-line (supported) lightweight window
manager.

See L</USAGE> and L</BEHAVIOUR> for more detailed information.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<xde-identify> uses GNU <get_options_long_only()> to parse options, so
long options with a single dash are accepted; however, short options
cannot be concatenated.  B<xde-identify> accepts the following options:

=head2 COMMAND OPTIONS

B<xde-style> accepts the command options as follows:

=over

=item B<-h>, B<--help>, B<-?>, B<--?>

Prints usage information to standard output and exits.  This command
option can be preceded by other options to observe the settings that
result in the help output.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Prints version information to standard output and exits.

=item B<-C>, B<--copying>

Prints copying permission to standard output and exits.

=back

=head2 GENERAL OPTIONS

B<xde-style> accepts the following non-command options:

=over

=item B<-S>, B<--screen> I<SCREEN>

Only act on the screen number, I<SCREEN>.  The default, C<-1>, is to act
on all screens unless the screen number is specified int he B<DISPLAY>
environment variable, in which case the screen number defaults to the
specified screen.  In general, a window manager with good multiple head
support will add the screen number to the B<DISPLAY> environment
variable for programs that it launches and the screen number does not
need to be specified.

=item B<-w>, B<--wmname> I<WMNAME>

Do not detect the window manager, but assume that the window manager
named, I<WMNAME> is to be used.  The B<--screen> option and B<DISPLAY>
environment variable are ignored.

=item B<-f>, B<--rcfile> I<RCFILE>

When the B<--wmname> option has been specified, use the file, I<RCFILE>,
as the configuration file for the window manager.

=item B<-D>, B<--debug> [I<LEVEL>]

Increment or set the debug level to I<LEVEL>.  The default debug level
is 0.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose> [I<LEVEL>]

Increment or set output verbosity level to I<LEVEL>.  The default output
verbosity level is 1.  This option may be repeated.

=back

=head1 USAGE

=head1 OUTPUT FORMAT

=over

=item I<XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT>

When the window manager supports EWMH/NetWM, reports the check window
id (B<_NET_SUPPORTING_WM_CHECK>).  Otherwise the field is not reported.

=item I<XDE_WM_WINWM_SUPPORT>

When the window manager supports GNOME/WinWM, reports the check window
id (B<_WIN_SUPPORTING_WM_CHECK>).  Otherwise the field is not reported.

=item I<XDE_WM_MAKER_SUPPORT>

When the window manager supports WindowMaker, reports the check window
id (B<_WINDOWMAKER_NOTICEBOARD>).  Otherwise the field is not reported.

=item I<XDE_WM_MOTIF_SUPPORT>

When the window manager supports OSF/Motif, reports the check window id
(B<_MOTIF_WM_INFO>).  Otherwise, the field is not reported.

=item I<XDE_WM_ICCCM_SUPPORT>

When the window manager supports ICCCM 2.0, reports the check window id
(B<WM_S%d> owner).  Otherwise, the field is not reported.

=item I<XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT>

When the window manager supports ICCCM (redirection), reports the root
window id.  Otherwise, the field is not reported.  (Note that it is
difficult to conceive of an X window manager that would not report this
field.)

=item I<XDE_WM_NAME>

Set to the name of the window manager.  The name of the window manager
is obtained by checking the check windows and root window for the
occurrence of a B<_NET_WM_NAME>, B<WM_NAME>, B<WM_CLASS> or
B<WM_COMMAND> property.  When none of these exist on the check or root
windows, and B<_WINDOWMAKER_NOTICEBOARD> is available and valid, it is
assumed that the window manager is L<wmaker(1)> and is reported as
C<wmaker>.  Otherwise, when B<_MOTIF_WM_INFO> is available and valid, it
is assumed that the window manager is L<mwm(1)> and is reported as
C<mwm>.  Note that when the name is C<workspacemanager>, it is assumed
that it is an old version of L<ctwm(1)> that is running and is reported
as C<ctwm>.  Otherwise, this field is not reported.

=item I<XDE_WM_PID>

Set to the numeric value of the process identifier of the window manager
process.  The process identifier is obtained from the B<_NET_WM_PID>
property on the check or root window.  However, when the window manager
is C<fluxbox>, the B<_BLACKBOX_PID> property is used from the root
window; when C<openbox>, the B<_OPENBOX_PID> property is used form the
root window.  When the process identifier is not found in this way and
there is sufficient information to find the process on the local
machine (e.g. from the B<WM_COMMAND> or simply from the name), the
process identifier is still reported.

=item I<XDE_WM_HOST>

Set to the fully qualified domain name of the host on which the window
manager is running.  The host is found from the B<WM_CLIENT_MACHINE>
property set on the check or root window, or, barring that, is
determined from the process information when the process can be
identified on the local machine.

=item I<XDE_WM_RES_NAME>

Set to the resource name of the window manager.  Obtained from the
B<WM_CLASS> property on the check or root window.  Not many window
managers report this field.

=item I<XDE_WM_RES_CLASS>

Set to the resource class of the window manager.  Obtained from the
B<WM_CLASS> property on the check or root window.  Not many window
managers report this field.

=item I<XDE_WM_CMDLINE>

Set to the window manager process command line as reported by the
F</proc> file system.  This field is reported when the window manager is
running on the local machine and the process can be identified (i.e.
from the window manager name and B<DISPLAY> environment variable).  This
field is only reported when the window manager is running on the same
host as B<xde-identify>.

=item I<XDE_WM_COMMAND>

Set to the window manager process command as reported by the
B<WM_COMMAND> property from the check or root window.  Not many window
managers report this field.  Even when reported, this field might be
different from that reported by I<XDE_WM_CMDLINE>.

=item I<XDE_WM_RCFILE>

Set the rc file being used by the window manager.  This is only reliable
when either the window manager is running with the default configuration
file, or when the command line is available in the I<XDE_WM_CMDLINE> or
I<XDE_WM_COMMAND> fields.  When the window manager does not support
specifying an alternate configuration file, and the default
configuration file is a symbolic link to another file, the linked file
is reported.  This field is only reported for supported window managers,
see L</WINDOW MANAGERS>.

=item I<XDE_WM_PRVDIR>

Set to the private directory in which the window manager configuration
data resides.  This is normally based off of the rc file and is the
directory in which the ultimate rc file resides.  In some cases, this
directory is otherwise specified (e.g. B<ICEWM_PRIVCFG> for L<icewm(1)>,
B<GNUSTEP_USER_ROOT> for L<wmaker(1)>).

=item I<XDE_WM_USRDIR>

Set to the user directory in which the window manager configuration data
resides.  This is the default configuration directory: that is, the user
directory in which the default configuration resides.  It is the same as
I<XDE_WM_PRVDIR> only when the default configuration file is used.  This
field is only reported for known window managers and corresponds to
default configuration of the window manager.

=item I<XDE_WM_SYSDIR>

Set to the system directory in which the default window manager
configuration data resides.  This field is only reported for known
window managers.  Some assumptions are made about the file system (that
window managers are installed with the normal parameters (e.g.
C<--prefix=/usr --sysconfdir=/etc>).  Reported directories are normally
subdirectories of F</usr/share>.

=item I<XDE_WM_ETCDIR>

Set to the system defaults directory in which window manager default
configuration data resides.  This field is only reported for known
window managers and when the window manager has such a directory.  Some
assumptions are made about the installation (that window managers are
installed with the normal parameters (e.g. C<--prefix=/usr
--sysconfidr=/etc>).  Reported directories are normally subdirectories
of F</etc>.

=item I<XDE_WM_STYLEFILE>

Set to the full path file name of the style file.  This field is only
reported for known window managers that actually have a style file.

=item I<XDE_WM_STYLE>

Set to the style.  This field is only reported for known window managers
that actually have a style file.

=item I<XDE_WM_STYLENAME>

Set to the style name.

=item I<XDE_WM_MENUFILE>

Set to the full path file name of the menu file.  This field is only
reported for known window managers that actually have a menu file.
Also, this is the file in a user directory to which should be written a
root menu specification and not necessarily the menu file which is
currently being used to display a root menu (which could have defaulted
to a system directory: for example, L<wmaker(1)> defaults to
F</etc/WindowMaker/WMRootMenu>).

=back

=head1 BEHAVIOUR

=head1 WINDOW MANAGERS

B<xde-identify> directly supports various window managers through the
use of plug-ins.  Plug-ins are provided for the following lightweight
window managers:

=over

=item L<adwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="adwm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0xa00001
 XDE_WM_WINWM_SUPPORT=0xa00001
 XDE_WM_MOTIF_SUPPORT=0xa00001
 XDE_WM_ICCCM_SUPPORT=0xa00001
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=26727
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'adwm'"
 XDE_WM_COMMAND="'adwm'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.adwm/adwmrc"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.adwm"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.adwm"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/adwm"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/adwm"

=back

=item L<fluxbox(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="fluxbox"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x10000b5
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=11457
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'fluxbox'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.fluxbox/init"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.fluxbox"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.fluxbox"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/fluxbox"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/fluxbox"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/usr/share/fluxbox/styles/Penguins"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="Penguins"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.fluxbox/menu"

=back

=item L<blackbox(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="blackbox"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1000008
 XDE_WM_ICCCM_SUPPORT=0x1000008
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=23312
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'blackbox', '-rc', '/home/brian/.blackbox/rc'"
 XDE_WM_COMMAND="'blackbox', '-rc', '/home/brian/.blackbox/rc'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.blackbox/rc"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.blackbox"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.blackbox"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/blackbox"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/blackbox"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/usr/share/blackbox/styles/Blackbirds"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="Blackbirds"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.blackbox/menu"

=back

=item L<openbox(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="openbox"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x100000e
 XDE_WM_ICCCM_SUPPORT=0x100000e
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=24074
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'openbox', '--debug-xinerama', '--config-file', '/home/brian/.config/openbox/unx-rc.xml'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.config/openbox/unx-rc.xml"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.config/openbox"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.config/openbox"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/openbox"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/xdg/openbox"
 XDE_WM_STYLEFILE="/usr/share/themes/Airforce/openbox-3/themerc"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/usr/share/themes/Airforce/openbox-3/themerc"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="Airforce"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.config/openbox/menu.xml"

=back

=item L<icewm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="icewm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1000011
 XDE_WM_WINWM_SUPPORT=0x1000011
 XDE_WM_ICCCM_SUPPORT=0x1000011
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=14865
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'icewm'"
 XDE_WM_COMMAND="'icewm'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.icewm/preferences"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.icewm"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.icewm"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/icewm"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/icewm"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/home/brian/.icewm/themes/Penguins/default.theme"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="Penguins/default.theme"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.icewm/menu"

=back

=item L<jwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="jwm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1000001
 XDE_WM_ICCCM_SUPPORT=0x1000001
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=13007
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'jwm'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.jwm/rc"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.jwm"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.jwm"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/jwm"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/jwm"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/usr/share/jwm/themes/Penguins/style"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="Penguins"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.jwm/menu"

=back

=item L<pekwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="pekwm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1000001
 XDE_WM_ICCCM_SUPPORT=0x1000001
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=32632
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'pekwm'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.pekwm/config"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.pekwm"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.pekwm"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/pekwm"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/pekwm"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/usr/share/pekwm/themes/Airforce"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="Airforce"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.pekwm/menu"

=back

=item L<fvwm(1)>

=item L<wmaker(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="wmaker"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x10000b9
 XDE_WM_MAKER_SUPPORT=0x10000b9
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=9310
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'wmaker', '--for-real='"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/GNUstep.petunia/Defaults/WindowMaker"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/GNUstep.petunia"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/GNUstep"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/WindowMaker"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/WindowMaker"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/GNUstep.petunia/Defaults/WMRootMenu"

=back

=item L<afterstep(1)>

=item L<metacity(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="metacity"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1200003
 XDE_WM_ICCCM_SUPPORT=0x1200005
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=21367
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'metacity'"

=back

=item L<twm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="twm"
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=12157
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/twm', '-f', '/home/brian/.twm/rc'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.twm/rc"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.twm"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.twm"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/twm"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/X11/twm"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/usr/share/twm/styles/Penguins/stylerc"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="Penguins"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.twm/menu"

=back

=item L<ctwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="ctwm"
 XDE_WM_WINWM_SUPPORT=0x1000068
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=18628
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/ctwm', '-n', '-f', '/home/brian/.ctwm/rc'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.ctwm/rc"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.ctwm"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.ctwm"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/ctwm"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/X11/ctwm"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/usr/share/ctwm/styles/Penguins/stylerc"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="Penguins"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.ctwm/menu"
 
=back

=item L<vtwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="vtwm"
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=11222
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/vtwm', '-f', '/home/brian/.vtwm/rc.m4', '-m'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.vtwm/rc.m4"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.vtwm"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.vtwm"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/vtwm"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/X11/vtwm"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/usr/share/vtwm/styles/Radar/stylerc"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="Radar"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.vtwm/menu"

=back

=item L<etwm(1)>

=item L<cwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="cwm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x800008
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=12928
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'cwm'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.cwmrc"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.cwm"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.cwm"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/cwm"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/cwm"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.cwm/menu"

=back

=item L<echinus(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="echinus"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1000005
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=12973
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/echinus'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.echinus/echinusrc"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.echinus"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.echinus"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/echinus"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/echinus"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/home/brian/.echinus/styles/Default/stylerc"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="Default"

=back

=item L<uwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="uwm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1000001
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=805
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'uwm'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.uwm/uwmrc"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.uwm"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.uwm"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/uwm"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/uwm"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.uwm/menu"

=back

=item L<awesome(1)>

B<TODO:> we could find the configuration file and assorted directories
for awesome quite easy.

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="awesome"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1000002
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=11100
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'awesome'"

=back

=item L<matwm2(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="matwm2"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1000006
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=21616
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/matwm2'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.matwmrc"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.matwm2"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.matwm2"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/matwm2"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/matwm2"

=back

=item L<waimea(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="waimea"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1200006
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=21954
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/waimea'"
 XDE_WM_RCFILE="/home/brian/.waimea/config"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.waimea"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.waimea"
 XDE_WM_SYSDIR="/usr/share/waimea"
 XDE_WM_ETCDIR="/etc/waimea"
 XDE_WM_STYLE="/home/brian/.waimea/styles/Squared-blue/stylerc"
 XDE_WM_STYLENAME="stylerc"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.waimea/menu"

=back

=item L<wind(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="wind"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1200005
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=22787
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/wind'"

=back

=item L<2bwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="2bwm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0xc00000
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x2c0
 XDE_WM_PID=23308
 XDE_WM_HOST="habeascorpus.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'2bwm'"

=back

=item L<wmx(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="wmx"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1200007
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=23146
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/wmx'"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.wmx"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.wmx"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.wmx/"

=back

=item L<flwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="flwm"
 XDE_WM_WINWM_SUPPORT=0x600004
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x2c0
 XDE_WM_PID=22022
 XDE_WM_HOST="habeascorpus.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'flwm'"
 XDE_WM_COMMAND="'flwm'"
 XDE_WM_PRVDIR="/home/brian/.wmx"
 XDE_WM_USRDIR="/home/brian/.wmx"
 XDE_WM_MENU="/home/brian/.wmx/"

=back

=item L<mwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="mwm"
 XDE_WM_MOTIF_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=23482
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'mwm'"

=back

=item L<dtwm(1)>

=item L<spectrwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="spectrwm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x80000c
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=23796
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'spectrwm'"

=back

=item L<yeahwm(1)>

It is amazing that B<xde-identify> can get this far.  L<yeahwm(1)> is
barely ICCCM compliant and yet the basic information about this window
manager can be identified.

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="yeahwm"
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=9280
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/yeahwm'"

=back

=item L<dwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="dwm"
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=13692
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'dwm'"

=back

=item L<aewm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="aewm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=10718
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/aewm'"

=back

=item L<bspwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="bspwm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x1000000
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=13613
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/bspwm'"

=back

=item L<failsafewm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="failsafewm"
 XDE_WM_PID=15022
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'failsafewm'"

=back

=item L<herbstluftwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="herbstluftwm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0xa00001
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=15438
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'/usr/bin/herbstluftwm'"

=back

=item L<i3(1)>

B<TODO:> there is more that we can identify about L<i3(1)>, such as the
path to the configuration file and other things.  Note that L<i3(1)>
sets some properties on the root window to help with this.

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="i3"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x120000b
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=17336
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'i3'"

=back

=item L<wm2(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="wm2"
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=24928
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'wm2'"

=back

=item L<wmii(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="wmii"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0xc00011
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=27685
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'wmii'"

=back

=item L<xdwm(1)>

=over

=item I<Example:>

 XDE_WM_NAME="xdwm"
 XDE_WM_NETWM_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_REDIR_SUPPORT=0x7d
 XDE_WM_PID=29841
 XDE_WM_HOST="petunia.pigworks.openss7.net"
 XDE_WM_CMDLINE="'xdwm'"

=back

=back

=head1 HISTORY

Although you would think that L<wmctrl(1)> or L<xdotool(1)> would
provide an option to identify the running window manager by name, they
don't.  This is primarily why I wrote B<xde-identify>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Brian Bidulock <bidulock@openss7.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<xde-style(1)>, L<xde-menu(1)>

=cut

# vim: sw=4 tw=72 spell spelllang=en_ca nocin
